---
title: "Modern React with Redux"
date: 2019-09-05
tags: [React, Redux]
header:
image:
excerpt: "Framework, Web Development, Front-End"
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "cog"
---

# Intro

## How does React Work?

React creates a VIRTUAL DOM in memory, where it does all the necessary manipulating, before making the changes in the browser DOM.

React only changes what needs to be changed.

## Setup

`npx create-react-app [Project Name / .] --scripts-version 2.1.2`

# JSX

# Props

Props are arguments passed into React components via HTML attributes.

# Class-Based Components

Components are **independent** and **reusable** bits of code. They serve the same purpose as JavaScript functions, but work in isolation and returns *HTML* elements via a render function.

# State

React components has a built-in state object.

The state object is where you store property values that belongs to the component.

When the state object changes, the component re-renders.

# Lifecycle Methods

Each component in React has a lifecycle which you can monitor and manipulate during its three main phases.

The three phases are: Mounting, Updating, and Unmounting.

# Handling User Input with Forms and Events

React events are written in camelCase syntax. React event handlers are written inside curly braces:

`onClick={shoot}` instead of `onclick="shoot()"`.

Handling forms is about how you handle the data when it changes value or gets submitted.

# Making API Requests with React



# Rendering Lists

# Using Ref's for DOM Access

# Redux

# Integrating React with Redux

# Async Actions with Redux Thunk

# Redux Store Design

# Navigation with React Router

# Authentication with React

# Redux Dev Tools

# Handling Forms with Redux Form

# REST-Based React Apps

# React Portals

# Implementing Streaming Video

# The Context System with React

# Replacing Redux with Context

# Hooks with Functional Components

# More Fun with Hooks

# React Testing