---
title: "The Power of Machine Learning in Digital Marketing"
date: 2020-04-29
tags: [Machine Learning]
header:
image:
excerpt: "Machine Learning"
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "cog"
---

Nowadays, data insights are more valuable than ever before, enabling for better customer engagement. It comes as no surprise that there is an increased reliance on data. 

For businesses today, being able to anticipate customer behavior is key to optimizing marketing campaigns. In this article, we’ll explore just how machine learning can help companies improve and enhance their marketing efforts.

Digital marketing in the modern era is all about data. Due to the huge amounts of data available, it’s increasingly common to see marketing become the priority for many companies, as it has a direct link to increasing revenue.

## Better Personalization 

Making personalized product recommendations

Amazon’s aforementioned success with e-commerce personalization is built upon machine learning. They harvest the huge reams of data on their customer’s online behaviors, interests, and past purchases to tailor the online shopping experience. This helps breed loyalty. Customers will trust a brand that makes them feel like they are being listened to. 

## Faster Customer Service 

Providing customers with a 24-hour support service

An increasingly common sight on many modern websites is the friendly chatbot that pops up in the bottom corner of the screen, offering assistance or advice soon after a visitor arrives on the site.

The eBay chatbot built for Google Assistant, which is “the most advanced e-commerce chatbot out there. And is also the most used,” helps customers find the best deal on their preferred products by using voice search.

Machine learning is fundamental to the success of chatbots, as it allows the chatbots to continually learn from interaction with visitors, collecting data and interpreting it to provide more accurate answers over time.

## Optimizing content and services

Possibly the best example of this is Google Rank Brain. Its ability to learn from the searcher intent has made the search engine giant an incredibly efficient service, consistently improving in the accuracy of its results depending on the context of each query.

## Best-practice Website Design

Web design, although instrumental for successful digital marketing, is a major problem for marketers. But machine learning is a lifesaver, as it can bring together data that is related to user preferences, website heat maps, design best practices and A/B tests.

The result? You can create web designs based on a lot more practical data, rather than on a designer’s guesswork.

## Effective Advertising

Advertising is a major cost for digital marketers. Traditional campaign optimization is based on manual decision-making such as:

- Which advertisement channel to choose
- How much ad space inventory to buy
- The timing of advertisement
- The duration of ad campaign

Of course, like all manual processes, this process’ effectiveness is constrained by the human limitations of brainwork and number crunching. Leveraging the power of machine learning can optimize the performance of your existing marketing campaigns.

## Preventing online shop from running out of stock