---
title: "BigQuery"
date: 2020-04-15
tags: [Google Cloud, BigQuery]
header:
image:
excerpt: "Cloud"
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "cog"
---

# Why BigQuery?

On-premise data analysis face query, infrastructure, and storage challenges. 

Why GCP is used for data analysis:

- Storage is cheap
- Focus on queries and insights, not infrastructure
- Massive scalability

BigQuery scales automatically and you only pay for what you use.

You are billed for the resources you use:

- Bucket Storage
- Query processing and Table Storage


5 steps of analyzing and gleaning insights from data:

1. Ingest: Get data in.
2. Transform: Prepare, clean, and transform data.
3. Store: Create, save, and store datasets.
4. Analyze: Derive insights from data.
5. Visualize: Explore and present data insights.

# BigQuery Fundamentals

BigQuery is a petabyte-scale data analytics warehouse.

Two services in one: 

1. Analysis
2. Managed Storage

## Job

The Unit of work in BigQuery is called a Job.

Each Job:
- Give a Unique ID by Web UI
- Can run concurrently
- Perform Tasks
- History Stored for 6 Months

## Pricing

3 categories of BigQuery pricing

1. Storage: amount of data in table
2. Processing: amount of data processed
3. Free: loading, exporting, queries with errors

Apply cost optimizing principles when writing your queries

- Only include the columns and rows you need
- Use cached results when possible
- Limit the use of User-Defined Functions


# Cleaning and Transforming Data

High quality datasets conform to strict integrity rules, here are 5 principles of Dataset Integrity:

1. Validity: range constraints
2. Accuracy: a known source of truth
3. Completeness
4. Consistency: ensures harmony across systems
5. Uniformity: measuring the same way

Dataset Shape:

- Numbers of Columns
- Numbers of Rows

Dataset Skew describes the distribution of data values.

## Clean and Transform Data with SQL

- Setup Field Data Type Constraints
- Specify fields as NULLABLE or REQUIRED
- Proactively check for NULL values
- Check and Filter for allowable rang values: using SQL conditionals
- Require primary keys/relational constraints in upstream source systems (BigQuery is an analytics warehouse not primary operational database)

## Dataprep

Cloud Dataprep is a pre-processing data pipeline building web UI tool.


# Creating New Datasets

## Creating Permanent Tables

1. Write SQL Query
2. Click **Show Options**
3. Specify the **Destination Table**
4. Choose Write Preference(if table already exists)
5. Run Query

If the Destination Table exists:

- Write if empty
- Append Records
- Overwrite table

## Temporary Tables

1. Use **Save as Table**
2. All Query Results are stored in tables
3. If you don't Save as a Permanent table, a Temporary one is automatically created and saved for 24 hours.
4. Re-running the same query will hit the cached temporary table.

## Creating Logical Views

- View = Saved SQL Query (a virtual table)
- The underlying query is re-ran each time the view is queried


# Advanced BigQuery Functions

Use the right function for the right job:

- String Manipulation Functions - FORMAT()
- Aggregation Functions - SUM() COUNT() AVG() MAX()
- Data Type Conversion Functions - CAST()
- Data Functions - PARSE_DATETIME()
- Statistical Functions
- Analytic Functions
- User-defined Functions

## Statistical and Approximations

APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT()

## Analytic Window Functions

### Standard aggregations
- SUM, AVG, MIN, MAX, COUNT, etc.

### Navigation functions
- LEAD() - Returns the value of a row n rows ahead of the current row
- LAG() - Returns the value of a row n rows behind the current row
- NTH_VALUE() - Returns the value of the nth value in the window

### Ranking and numbering functions
- CUM_DIST() - Returns the cumulative distribution of a value in a group
- DENSE_RANK() - Returns the integer rank of a value in a group
- ROW_NUMBER() - Returns the current row number of the query result
- RANK() - Returns the integer rank of a value in a group of values
- PERCENT_RANK() - Returns the rank of the current row, relative to the other rows in the partition

## User-Defined Functions (UDF)

```sql
CREATE TEMPORARY FUNCTION greeting
RETURN STRING
LANGUAGE js AS """return "HELLO, " + a + "!";""";
```

Pitfall:

- User-defined functions hurt performance
- Concurrent rate limits: for non-UDF queries:50, for UDF-queries:6

## Sub-query and CTE design

- WITH is simply a named subquery
- Acts as a temporary table
- Breaks up complex queries
- Chain together multiple subqueries in a single WITH
- You can reference other subqueries in future subqueries

# BigQuery Architecture

BigQuery Architecture introduces 3 key innovations:

1. **Column-Based** Data Storage
2. **Break Apart Tables** into Pieces
3. Store **Nested Fields** within a Table


## BigQuery Nested and Repeated Fields


# Apply ML to Your Data

## Creating ML Datasets in BigQuery


